README.md, before:

![Houdoku Header](/res/houdoku_header.png)

[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/xgi/houdoku.svg)](https://github.com/xgi/houdoku/releases) 
[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/xgi/houdoku/tree/master.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/xgi/houdoku/tree/master)

Houdoku is a manga reader and library manager for the desktop.

---

# Features

* Supports popular manga aggregators, including MangaDex, MangaHere, and more
(see [houdoku-plugins](https://github.com/xgi/houdoku-plugins)).
* Customizable reader interface with optional dark/night mode.
* Tagging and filtering support to easily browse and manage large libraries.
* Cross-platform!

---

![Screenshots (light)](/res/screenshots_light.png)
![Screenshots (dark)](/res/screenshots_dark.png)

---

# Download

Download Houdoku from [the releases page](https://github.com/xgi/houdoku/releases).

For Windows users, a native .exe is provided. Users on other operating systems should download the
.jar. Both options require a sufficient Java installation with JRE version 8 or later.

The client can typically be run by simply double clicking the file. Alternatively, you may start
the client via the command line:

```bash
$ java -jar houdoku-x.y.z.jar
```

# Plugins

Support for 3rd party content sources (manga aggregators) is available via a plugin interface. You
may install and update plugins by going to File->Settings->Plugins in the client.

For more information, and for an index of available plugins, see the
[houdoku-plugins repository](https://github.com/xgi/houdoku-plugins).

# Dependencies

Running Houdoku requires Java (JRE) 8 or later.

The project makes use of the following 3rd-party libraries, which are bundled with the application:

* JSoup 1.11.3 -- Parse HTML documents
* OkHttp3 3.10.0 -- Make HTTP requests
* Gson 2.8.4 -- Object serialization
* AppDirs 1.0.1 -- Determine OS-specific data directories
* slf4j-simple (SimpleLogger) 1.7.25 -- Logging
* JUnit 4.12 -- Unit testing
* Mockito 2.19.1 -- Mocks for unit testing

Libraries are downloaded from the Maven Central Repository -- see this project's [pom.xml](https://github.com/xgi/houdoku/blob/master/pom.xml).

# Testing

This project uses Maven for building and testing. Running unit tests is easy:

```bash
$ mvn test
```

To compile the executable JAR, use `mvn package`. The Houdoku artifact will be in
`./out/artifacts`. This command may be useful for building & running the client (note the
optional `skipTests`):

```bash
$ mvn package [-DskipTests] && \
    java -jar ./out/artifacts/houdoku/Houdoku-*.jar
```

# License

[MIT License](https://github.com/xgi/houdoku/blob/master/LICENSE)

Commit message:

add docs for enabling external services

README.md, after:

![Houdoku Header](/res/houdoku_header.png)

[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/xgi/houdoku.svg)](https://github.com/xgi/houdoku/releases) 
[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/xgi/houdoku/tree/master.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/xgi/houdoku/tree/master)

Houdoku is a manga reader and library manager for the desktop.

---

# Features

* Supports popular manga aggregators, including MangaDex, MangaHere, and more
(see [houdoku-plugins](https://github.com/xgi/houdoku-plugins)).
* Customizable reader interface with optional dark/night mode.
* Tagging and filtering support to easily browse and manage large libraries.
* Cross-platform!

---

![Screenshots (light)](/res/screenshots_light.png)
![Screenshots (dark)](/res/screenshots_dark.png)

---

# Download

Download Houdoku from [the releases page](https://github.com/xgi/houdoku/releases).

For Windows users, a native .exe is provided. Users on other operating systems should download the
.jar. Both options require a sufficient Java installation with JRE version 8 or later.

The client can typically be run by simply double clicking the file. Alternatively, you may start
the client via the command line:

```bash
$ java -jar houdoku-x.y.z.jar
```

# Plugins

Support for 3rd party content sources (manga aggregators) is available via a plugin interface. You
may install and update plugins by going to File->Settings->Plugins in the client.

For more information, and for an index of available plugins, see the
[houdoku-plugins repository](https://github.com/xgi/houdoku-plugins).

# Dependencies

Running Houdoku requires Java (JRE) 8 or later.

The project makes use of the following 3rd-party libraries, which are bundled with the application:

* JSoup 1.11.3 -- Parse HTML documents
* OkHttp3 3.10.0 -- Make HTTP requests
* Gson 2.8.4 -- Object serialization
* AppDirs 1.0.1 -- Determine OS-specific data directories
* slf4j-simple (SimpleLogger) 1.7.25 -- Logging
* JUnit 4.12 -- Unit testing
* Mockito 2.19.1 -- Mocks for unit testing

Libraries are downloaded from the Maven Central Repository -- see this project's [pom.xml](https://github.com/xgi/houdoku/blob/master/pom.xml).

# Testing

This project uses Maven for building and testing. Running unit tests is easy:

```bash
$ mvn test
```

To compile the executable JAR, use `mvn package`. The Houdoku artifact will be in
`./out/artifacts`. This command may be useful for building & running the client (note the
optional `skipTests`):

```bash
$ mvn package [-DskipTests] && \
    java -jar ./out/artifacts/houdoku/Houdoku-*.jar
```

## Connecting to external clients

**This section is only for developers**. Application credentials for external services are bundled
in the downloads provided.

Support for some services, such as accessing the AniList API, requires registering external clients.
Houdoku can run without enabling these services, but functionality may be limited.

Credentials are stored in a properties file. See the
[secret.properties template](https://github.com/xgi/houdoku/blob/master/src/main/resources/secret.properties.template) for instructions on
creating credentials for each external client.

# License

[MIT License](https://github.com/xgi/houdoku/blob/master/LICENSE)
